Hello Freak bitches.
So,
uh,
first of all,
thanks for doing this.
You've been on this crazy sort of whirlwind tour.
Have you gone anywhere or you just been doing it?
Most of them mostly from your house and honestly from my house,
just on Skype now for people who don't know the story,
let's give them the short version of it.
You were working at Google and what prompted you to write this memo?
It's a,
they would have these companywide meetings where they just push a lot of this
diversity stuff and some of it was kind of weird.
So I decided to go to these,
uh,
these secret meetings,
sort of that we're about a hundred people,
a completely unrecorded,
and they would talk about some of the things that they're doing and it would
really contradict what they're saying publicly where,
oh no,
we're not changing any of our hiring practices for these candidates.
And they said,
yeah,
we basically are,
uh,
making it easier for some kind of ways to get in.
And I,
you know,
I voiced some concerns,
but people just chain me and was like,
no,
you're wrong.
You're just like,
have white male privilege.
I said,
you have white male privilege.
That was the actual word.
The is.
Yeah,
there's a lot of that going on.
And so they asked for feedback on the program.
So I,
I wrote this document to clarify my thoughts.
I sent it to them,
they looked at it,
but you know,
they just ignored it.
Never told me anything.
So I went to a couple more of these programs and you know,
I gave similar feedback.
I gave the same document,
they kept looking at it but just never said anything.
And you know,
I,
I would send it to random people that I knew and half the people would be like,
yes,
exactly.
This is what I've been thinking.
And the other half would maybe disagree with some points,
but it would never be an emotional outbursts or anything.
It would just be like,
oh,
are you sure that this is actually happening?
And it's like,
yes,
because you know,
I've actually been to these unrecorded meetings.
This is what's happened.
So if you could get into specifics,
like when you're in these meetings and they're talking about diversity,
what is their concern and is it there they're trying to promote a,
an image of diversity.
Are they trying to promote actual diversity?
I do they think that there's a benefit for diversity or is it a part of their
public public image?
And is it a lot of it to avoid criticism because I think there's a big issue
with,
I mean if you don't have all your bases covered,
two black women,
two Asian men,
if you don't have all your bases covered,
you can get like pretty roundly criticized is not being diverse or being
possibly racist when you do that,
you're kind of fucked.
Correct.
Yeah.
So Google definitely has a huge target on its back and so there are people that
want to complain that,
oh,
Google is not diverse,
therefore it's racist and sexist.
And so that's a lot of their fear that they look at their representation and
then compare it to the overall us population and say,
Oh,
we only have 20% women.
We should have 50% there's some sexism happening.
And so a lot of their stuff is,
oh,
we need to fix this because you know,
all this sexism is bad.
And obviously if you disagree with sexism,
that's of course bad.
And like,
I obviously don't,
uh,
you know,
want there to be any sexism,
but I just don't think that that's the sole cause of this.
A disparity in representation.
Yeah.
It seems like in the interest of promoting an image of diversity,
they're willing to bypass science and the truth and the reality of culture,
the reality of human biology and evolutionary psychology.
There's just so much that they're willing to look past to get to this one thing,
which seems to be like this really important thing today.
Society that you want to promote an image of diversity.
It's more important than anything.
So like when you're in these classes or these,
I mean,
I wouldn't call it a class,
what would you call it?
A meeting?
Well,
whatever they are.
Yes.
Some of them were classes somewhere,
you know,
our day long programs and teach you things like what would they teach you there?
Talk about unconscious bias and no.
Oh lucky you might be racist.
You have to find the racism in menu
and yeah,
there's a whole program that's trying to retrain your brain to think,
to think about race in a new way or something.
So they're just assuming you're guilty pretty much.
Cause you're white.
I well yeah,
I mean they look at the representation and say racism,
sexism,
do uh,
black people have to go to this.
Aye.
They no one has to ask too.
They are definitely pushing it on people.
And uh,
now managers are being evaluated by how well they promote diversity and
inclusion and you know,
it's just a slippery slope and I think it'll eventually become part of our
performance review.
So if you're a white woman,
do you have to go to this?
I mean,
did that,
are you encouraged to go to this?
Are you like,
Hey,
you made it through like this will have been looking for your fine or if you're
an Indian woman even better.
Right?
Is that how it works or would you still have to go there and approach your
unconscious biases?
Yeah.
They say everyone has these unconscious biases
towards white people.
Oh,
do they have those where they have like black people with their unconscious
biases towards white people.
So they never acknowledged that anyone could be racist against white people.
Of course.
Why would you,
yeah.
It's all this like if you have,
you can only be racist if you're have power or sex if you have power and they
believe that the racist part.
Yeah,
I think so.
Well that's insane.
That's a redefinition.
It's a very recent redefinition of the term racism,
but it's very slippery.
Very dangerous because you could see it as,
you know,
promoting in,
in fact like exonerating racism towards uh,
other ethnicities or towards why people are towards people that you feel like
are in a privileged class.
You'd get away with it cause it's no big deal because they're the ones who are
racist.
Even if it's not even that person.
If it's people who look like them that have lived for centuries,
like somehow or another,
you are a guilty person with your teams,
with your white privilege.
So like,
what would they tell you when you would go to these?
Do you do,
did you like express some discontent or,
yeah,
I,
my main concern was them saying 50% in the population look who all has 20%.
And so we're [inaudible] yeah,
yeah.
And you know,
there were clear reasons,
at least in my mind that that's not as simple as they're making out to be and
that,
you know,
there are these,
some differences and that could explain some of the issues that women are
facing.
And so a lot of these women issues in tech I feel are actually not really gender
issues there just,
uh,
you know,
women on average are more cooperative,
for example.
And so they may find it harder to,
you know,
lean in,
in the corporate world like Sheryl Sandberg is saying,
but you know,
there are men that also feel like that I'm not very assertive.
I'm actually pretty shy and so I feel the same stuff.
It's not that,
you know,
there's a ton of sexism.
It's maybe that male typical behavior is rewarded.
Just as you know,
competitiveness is rewarding in a lot of corporate world,
but it's not that we're just,
Oh,
you're a woman,
therefore you're obviously bad at coding.
You know?
No one has ever saying that.
Right.
I think there is absolutely an issue with assertive women being treated very
differently than a sort of men.
Like an assertive woman is a bitch.
Like you don't want to be around them.
That's like the,
the,
the bias and a,
that's a real issue I think for women that want to enter into any sort of a
competitive field and you know where a man would be assertive if a woman does
the exact same thing she's looked down upon,
just looked upon like a problem woman or like someone you don't want to work
with.
Whereas the guy is just ambitious.
Yeah.
Although some people will twist that and say that because I,
and a lot of it is just,
they try to fit their ideology and they see one data point and they extrapolate.
So they see these studies and it's true that these women are viewed as less
likable,
but they are seen as just as competent.
And so their performance review isn't affected really by being assertive.
It's just that socially they may not be as likely.
Right.
But that's gotta be a factor in the way the behave.
Because for men,
a ball busting successful man is supposed to be like looked up to like,
oh this is the guy who was kicking ass in the corporate world.
He's doing it right.
Like you know,
Bob is ruthless.
But if Jenny's ruthless,
like you don't want to be around her,
you know,
it's a,
it's a weird,
it's just that's,
I feel like that if there is a real bias with men,
and obviously I don't work in
tech,
but I would assume that that would be a real bias.
Yeah.
And I mean I think some of the solution to that is just allowing people to be
more cooperative.
And you know,
actually,
so for example,
a Google,
you're really rewarded for owning a particular project and seeing that one
project go through.
But if you're someone that is just,
you know,
can really help a lot of different people,
and you're not necessarily a sole owner of any individual thing,
but you're,
you provide a lot of value to a company that isn't really seen as positive as
someone that really drove the project alone.
Hmm.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
That seems like a bad thing for teamwork,
right?
Is that just a bad philosophy or something that got stuck in the way the system
works,
or,
I think it's sorta just,
it's hard to evaluate if I did,
you know,
10% of my time on 10 different projects and I help them don't make sense.
Yeah.
So you'd have to essentially trust the workers instincts and work ethic and,
yeah.
Okay.